Sag
===

Version 0.1 (NOT RELEASED)
http://www.saggingcouch.com

Sag is a simple PHP library for working with CouchDB. It is designed to not
force any particular programming method on its users - you just pass PHP
objects, and get StdClass objects and Exceptions back. This makes it trivial to
incorporate Sag into your application, build different functionality on top of
it, and expand Sag to incorporate new CouchDB functionality.

Error Handling
--------------

Sag's paradigm of simplicity is carried into its error handling by allowing you
to send data to CouchDB that will result in errors (ex., malformed JSON). The
reason for this is that CouchDB knows when there's an error better than Sag,
and it would be disingenuous for Sag to try and detect errors for CouchDB.
Therefore, Sag will only look for interface problems and issues that are native
to PHP (ex., passing an int instead of a StdClass).

All errors are floated back to your application with the standard PHP
Exception class. Sag does not catch any errors, allowing your application to
care about them or not.

Networking
----------

Sag uses sockets, so there is no dependency on other libraries such as cURL. If
you want to monitor your application's activity on the server side (ex., if you
are proxying requests to CouchDB through a web server), then look for the
User-Agent header.

Results
-------

Results from CouchDB are stored in an object, breaking out the HTTP header
lines and data. For example, running `print_r($sag->get('/1'));` (where '/1' is
the location of a document) would give you something like:

``
stdClass Object
(
    [headers] => stdClass Object
        (
            [_HTTP] => stdClass Object
                (
                    [raw] => HTTP/1.0 200 OK
                    [version] => 1.0
                    [status] => 200
                )

            [Server] =>  CouchDB/0.10.0 (Erlang OTP/R13B)
            [Etag] =>  "1-4c6114c65e295552ab1019e2b046b10e"
            [Date] =>  Mon, 12 Apr 2010 23:01:39 GMT
            [Content-Type] =>  text/plain;charset=utf-8
            [Content-Length] =>  68
            [Cache-Control] =>  must-revalidate
        )

    [body] => stdClass Object
        (
            [_id] => 1
            [_rev] => 1-4c6114c65e295552ab1019e2b046b10e
            [foo] => bar
        )

)
''

HTTP protocol information is stored in $result->headers, its headers broken out
as entries in the headers array - the "_HTTP" array element holds the basic
HTTP information in raw form ($result->headers->_HTTP->raw), and then broken
out into HTTP version number ($result->headers->_HTTP->version) and status code
($result->headers->_HTTP->status).

The $result->body property holds the raw data from CouchDB, which you can have
Sag automatically decode into PHP objects with json_decode().

Functions
---------

FUNCTION                                        DESCRIPTION

Sag($host = "127.0.0.1", $port = "5984")        Specify the address and port in
                                                the constructor.

login($user, $pass, $type = Sag::$AUTH_BASIC)   Set the username and password to
                                                use for all subsequent 
                                                transactions to the server
                                                (null them out to "logout").

decode($bool)                                   Whether or not to decode the 
                                                JSON from CouchDB with PHP's
                                                json_decode().

get($url)                                       Get the specified URL. Ex.,
                                                get("/1") gets a doc with an
                                                _id of 1.

delete($id, $rev)                               Delete a document.

put($id, $data)                                 PUT's a document - $data will
                                                need a $_rev property.

post($data)                                     POST's a document.

bulk($array)                                    Does a bulk transaction, using
                                                the specified array.

copy($srcID, $dstID, $dstRev = null)            Copy a document, optionally to
                                                an existing document.

createDatabase($name)                           Creates the database.

deleteDatabase($name)                           Deletes the database.

setDatabase($name)                              Specifies which database to
                                                work with.

getAllDocs($includeDocs = false,                Runs /_all_docs with the
            $limit = null,                      provided parameters.
            $startKey = null, 
            $endKey = null
          )

getAllDocsBySeq($includeDocs = false,           Runs /_all_docs_by_seq.
                $limit = null,
                $startKey = null,
                $endKey = null
              )

getAllDatabases()                               Runs /_all_dbs.

generateIDs($num = 10)                          Generates a specified number of
                                                IDs with /_uuids.

replicate($src, $target, $continuous = false)   Replicate between two 
                                                databases, optionally
                                                continuously.

License
-------

Sag is released under the Apache License, version 2.0. See the file named
LICENSE for more information.

